USER DATAGRAM PROTOCOL
User datagram Protocol(UDP) is a metadata.It usually contains the information of the source and destination of the data.
UDP is also present in the transport layer.
It is connectionless and unreliable.
UDP is used for streaming videos
It is connectionless and unreliable 
For real time services like computer gaming,voice or video communication,live conferences.
UDP permits packets to be dropped instead of processijng delayed packets.
There is no error checking like as in TCP.
There is only request and response, there will not be any acknowledgement.
UDP leverage hacking.

UDP HEADER:
 
UDP port number fields are each 16 bits long, therefore the range for port numbers is defined from 0 to 65535.
Where 0 is reserved. Port numbers help to distinguish different user requests or processes. 
Source Port: Source Port is a 2 Byte long field used to identify the port number of the source.
Destination Port: It is a 2 Byte long field, used to identify the port of the destined packet.
Length: Length is the length of UDP including the header and the data. It is a 16-bits field.
Checksum: Checksum is 2 Bytes long field. It is the 16-bit one’s complement of the one’s complement sum of the UDP header, the pseudo-header of information from the IP header, and the data, padded with zero octets at the end (if necessary) to make a multiple of two octets.


How a computer works?
IP address:It is the id from where a system receives a data.
The client will use an IP  address and send the require data to the destination.
The port number vary from 0 - 12000.
For local host the IP address is fixed "127.0.0.1",local host is our own system from where we fetch the data.

SOCKET:
Socket is a  point where it is a channel for sending and receiving data.It is a combination of IP address and port .
Port number: It is the place from where the system will receive the information from that particular place.
Suppose the system can have many number of ports then some informations are stored in that particular place and the information can be retrieved only from the particular place.

CLIENT -SERVER ARCHITECTURE:
Whenever the client requires a data it sends a request to the server, so the server will send the requested data to the server.
The requested data are transmitted over the internet from the server to the client.It can be mobile to laptop (or) desktop to mobile(or) desktop to laptop ,anything.

Applications of UDP:
For simple request-response communication  when the size of data is less.
UDP takes a datagram from Network Layer, attaches its header, and sends it to the user. So, it works fast.

IP Address:
Internet protocol address is the rule that makes internet work.
IP address types-
1.IPV4:
This internet protocol versio consists of 4 numbers separated by dot.
The range of the number is between (0-255)10 .But they are converted to binary values as 0's and 1's.
Each N is of size 8 bits , so ipv4 is the sequence of 32 bits.
In IPV4 unique sequence of 0's and 1's are assigned to each computer.
2.IPV6:
It is made up of 128bits IP address.
It is a group of 8 hexadecimal numbers separated by colons
xxxx:xxxx:xxxx:xxxx:xxxx:xxxx:xxxx:xxxx
A total of 2^128 bits is stored in the internet to address the amout of devices .

CLASSIFICATION OF IP ADDRESS:
1.Dynamic IP Address:
	IP address keeps changing every time when we get connected over an internet.For every new serach the IP address changes within the range in the ISP.
2.Static IP Address:
	Addresses never change here.They remain permanent.
eg:DNS Server:By using the DNS Server it is easy to track the location  of the system.
Hence it is less secure than Dynamic IP Address.

Difference between TCP and UDP:
1.Type of Service:TCP is a connection-oriented protocol.
	               UDP is the datagram-oriented protocol.
2.Reliability:TCP is reliable.
	    Delivery of the data to the destination is not guaranteed in UDP.
3.Error Checking Mechanism:TCP provides flow control and acknowledgement of data.
		                  UDP has only basic error checking mechanism using checksums.
4.Acknowledgement:In TCP there is acknowledge segment.
		In UDP there is no acknowledgement segment.
5.Sequence:Sequencing of data is a feature of TCP ie the packets are received in an order.
	    There is no sequencing in UDP.If the order is required it has to be managed by the application layer.
6.Speed:TCP is slower than UDP.
                     UDP is faster and more efficient than TCP.
7.Retransmission:Retransmission is possible in TCP 
	                 There is no retransmission inTCP.
8.Header Length:TCP has a 20-60 bytes variable length header.
	                       UDP has an 8 bytes fixed - length header.
9.Weigth:TCP is heavy-weigth.
	        UDP is light weigth.
10.Handshaking Techniques: TCP uses hanshakes such as SYN,ACK ,SYN-ACK.
             Since UDP is connectionless protocol it doesn't use any handshaking techniques.
11.Broadcasting: TCP doen't support broadcasting.
                                   UDP supports  broadcasting.
12.Protocols:TCP is used by HTTP,HTTPS,FTP,SMTP and Telnet.
	               UDP is used byNS,DHCP,TFTP,SNMP,RIP and VoIP.
13.Stream Type:TCP connection is a byte stream.
	             UDP connectioin is message stream
14.Overhead:Low but higher than UDP.
	       Very low.